# Pinball-Blower-Toy
This repository contains plans and drawings for a Pinball Blower Toy.  This specific pinball blower is a compact air blower that interacts with Pinball tables like Whirlwind or Walking Dead.  These fans are categorized as 'toys' and generally placed on top of a cabinet back box.  In other applications the fan or blower is placed inside the main cabinet and uses a duct to bring the forced air out of the bottom front of the cabinet underneath the coin door, where the air blows upward into the players face. I am going with the later implementation, but I am placing the blower on the bottom outside of the cabinet instead of inside using a 30mm thick pancake blower.  This saves me from making a needless hole in the cabinet.  Other implementations use a ducted, axial fan.  These ducted axial fans produces 125 CFM of air flow, my small pancake blower only is only rated for 47 CFM.  However, CFM (Cubic Feet per Minute) is not what is needed in a ducted vent with two 90 degree turns.  Rather, this is a job for a centrifugal fan that has unsurpassed static pressure.   Whether it is your home HVAC or your car's heater, chances are it uses a centrifugal fan.  Why?  Because centrifugal fans create pressure to push air through a vent, ducted fans do not.  In closing my air blower is better, cheaper and less obtrusive.  My blower project uses an adjustable vent that focuses the air (just like the vents in your car) and an automatic vent cover that opens and closes when the fan blower is toggled on and off.  The system cost half of other DIY projects. 

I have a larger pancake fan/blower that is roughly twice as powerful that I am currently designing a new elbow duct for.  This blower is 40mm tall (10mm larger than the first), so it is not as compact as the smaller unit.  I included the specs on this blower too.   
